Comment on “Scaling advantages of all-to-all connectivity in physical annealers: the
Coherent Ising Machine vs D-Wave 2000Q”
Catherine C. McGeoch,1, ∗ William Bernoudy,1 and James King1
1

D-Wave Systems Inc, Burnaby B.C.
(Dated: July 3, 2018)

arXiv:1807.00089v1 [quant-ph] 29 Jun 2018

A recent paper compares performance of a D-Wave 2000Q system to two versions of the coherent
Ising machine (CIM). This comment points out some flaws in the analysis, which undermine several
of the conclusions drawn in the paper.

I.

INTRODUCTION

A recent paper by Hamerly et al. [1] (see also [2]) considers the impact of connectivity on physical annealing
systems. Starting from a premise that connectivity has a
significant impact on performance, the authors describe
results from experiments performed on a D-Wave 2000Q
annealing-based quantum processor to two versions of the
coherent Ising machine (CIM). The former has relatively
sparse physical connectivity among its qubits; the latter
has all-to-all connectivity in its FPGA subsystem but no
physical connectivity among the elements in its optical
subsystem.
Test inputs from two problem classes, here denoted SK
(Sherrington-Kirkpatrick) and MC (Max Cut), are used.
The performance metric of interest is time-to-solution
(TTS), calculated from time to find a single solution and
the probability that a given solution is optimal. The
take-away messages from this paper are summarized in
this excerpt from the abstract:

denser connection topologies. However, the remaining
claims in this excerpt are based on flawed analysis and
faulty reasoning about what conclusions can legitimately
be drawn from the data:
2

1. The “exponential O(e−O(N )) )” performance gap is
based on two regression models that are meant to
describe scaling of the algorithms realized by the
2000Q processor and the CIM. However, the authors have fit their models incorrectly, to data that
does not correspond to the true scaling of these algorithms. The resulting curves overestimate scaling
of the 2000Q processor and underestimate scaling
of the CIM.
2. The “several-orders-of-magnitude” difference in
TTS is based on extrapolating those incorrect
curves to large problems well outside the range of
tests. Looking at the measured data, the CIM appears to be about 100x and 8000x faster on SK and
dense MC inputs, respectively. However, an applesto-apples analysis of their data (treating post processing the same way for both systems) shows much
smaller gaps: the CIM is about 5x faster on SK and
364x faster on dense MC inputs. That gap might
have been further reduced, or perhaps eliminated,
if the tests had incorporated performance-tuning
features available on the 2000Q processor.

Abstract: We demonstrate an exponential
2
O(e−O(N )) ) penalty in performance for the
D-Wave quantum annealer relative to coherent Ising machines when solving Ising problems on dense graphs, which is attributable
to the differences in internal connectivity between the machines. This leads to a severalorders-of-magnitude time-to-solution difference between coherent Ising machines and the
D-Wave system for problems with over 50 vertices. Our results provide strong experimental support to efforts to increase the connectivity of physical annealers.

The following sections discuss these issues in more detail.

The starting premise, that physical connectivity plays a
role in performance of these systems, has been well discussed in the literature and is not in dispute. The conclusion, in support of increased connectivity in physical
annealers, aligns with ongoing work at D-Wave and elsewhere to build next-generation quantum systems with

That is, many classical optimization algorithms, such
as simulated annealing and the CIM, work by stepping
through a large space of possible solutions one at a time.
Some inputs are combinatorially easy, requiring just a
few steps and time scales in fractions of seconds to be
solved; some inputs are combinatorially hard, requiring
an enormous number of steps and time scales in hours,
weeks, or years, to be solved.

∗ cmcgeoch@dwavesys.com

First, however, we remark that even if the CIM is faster
on dense SK and MC inputs (and the 2000Q system is
faster on sparse inputs, as described in [1,3]), there is
nothing in the paper to suggest that this result is representative of performance on inputs that matter.

D-Wave quantum processors work under a completely
different paradigm: instead of of stepping through the

2
solution space, they exploit quantum properties to find
shortcut routes to optimal solutions. The inputs that
matter to quantum performance evaluation are the combinatorially hard ones: if a given set of inputs is easy
enough to be solved quickly by classical methods, there
is no room for improvement and nothing to be gained by
using the quantum approach.
While it is easy to see how graph density would affect
computation time per step, the more important question
is whether it affects the total number of steps required
in the classical computation. This question is not addressed in the Hamerley et al. paper, but the data does
give hints that the problems are combinatorially easy.
For example, the CIM apparently never needs more than
1000 steps to search a solution space of size 2150 ; and
on SK problems, while input size increases by one order
of magnitude, computation time for the CIM grows by
less than an order of magnitude. Furthermore, results by
King et al. [4] show that these problems can be solved in
less than 10 milliseconds using a GPU implementation of
the CIM algorithm, which runs roughly 20 times faster
than the CIM.
More generally, it is known that higher density doesn’t
necessarily make NP-hard graph problems combinatorially harder. In many problem domains it has been
demonstrated that dense problems can be solved more
efficiently than sparse problems (see e.g. [5]). Furthermore, it is known Max Cut problems on dense graphs can
be approximately solved by efficient greedy methods [6];
without going into technical details, this would translate
to efficient exact solution methods on finite-sized inputs.
In summary: the scaling analysis does not correspond
to the true scaling of the two algorithms under study;
the runtime analysis does not correspond to performance
that would have been observed under balanced test conditions; and there is no evidence that the inputs selected
for testing are hard enough to support conclusions about
performance in general. For these reasons, the conclusions drawn in the Hamerly et al. paper do not give an
accurate picture of the true performance landscape for
these systems.

II.

with increasing success probability. Let tp (N ) denote
the minimum anneal time sufficient to achieve some target success probability p, as a function of problem size
N . The amount of computational work performed by
an annealing-based algorithm corresponds to how tp (N )
scales with N .
Fig. 2 of Ref. [1] shows four regression curves corresponding to four values of t, which are fit to p using the
regression model P = exp(−(N/N0DW )2 ), where N0DW is
a slowly-increasing function of t.
This model is used to describe scaling of the D-Wave
2000Q processor, but note that the curve is fit to the
wrong data: the scaling of p for fixed t is not the same
as the scaling of t for fixed p. Given a constant amount
of effort to solve the problem, one would expect success
probabilities to plummet to 0 as N grows; but this is
completely independent of how much effort is needed to
maintain a given success probability.
This difference is explained by Rønnow et al. [7], who
show that the “true scaling” curve for an annealing-based
algorithm corresponds to the lower envelope of the sequence of fixed-anneal time curves. Fig. 1 of ref. [7]
shows true scaling curves for two classical solvers, which
approach different asymptotes, from different directions
(convex lower bound vs. concave upper bound) than do
the fixed-anneal curves.
Furthermore, Rønnow et al. show how a solver that
does too much work at small N can exhibit “fake
speedup” with data that appears flatter than the true
scaling curve. Fig. 2(c) of [1] shows that the CIM curve
is nearly horizontal and does not intersect the origin, a
strong indication that fake speedup is present. If so, the
regression model used in the paper underestimates true
scaling for the CIM.
The combination of regression models that overestimate 2000Q scaling and underestimate CIM scaling produces the performance gap claimed in the abstract, which
greatly overestimates the true gap. From the data presented in the paper it is impossible to determine conclusively whether a scaling gap exists at all, since the lower
envelope curve in Fig. 2 is too small to support trustworthy data analysis.

FAULTY REGRESSION ANALYSIS
III.

IMBALANCE IN RUNTIME
COMPARISONS

Annealing-based optimization algorithms have an anneal time parameter t that controls the amount of computational effort spent solving a given input. For classical
algorithms, t determines the number of steps needed to
explore the solution space, inspecting one solution at a
time. For an annealing-based quantum processor, t corresponds to elapsed time in an analog computation, which
must be above a certain threshold to make successful outcomes possible.

Putting aside the flawed extrapolation and considering
runtime performance that was actually measured, Fig.
2(c) suggests that the CIM is about 100x faster than the
D-Wave 2000Q system on SK instances, and Fig S6 shows
the CIM to be about 8000x faster on dense MC instances
at N = 60, N = 45 respectively.

In both cases, increasing anneal time is associated

However, Appendix S2 mentions that the CIM TTS

3
calculations include a post-processing step that selects
the “best batch” of results from several trials: “This
is the success probability we could expect from a wellengineered CIM where the optical phase, pump power,
and other optical degrees of freedom have been sufficiently stabilized.” Fig S5 shows that success probabilities for raw versus postprocessed data are near praw =
.1, ppost = .9 at the problem sizes of interest: this translates to about a 22x speedup in TTS from postprocessing.
Comparing raw CIM performance to raw 2000Q performance, the CIM is about 5x faster on SK inputs and
about 364x faster on dense MC inputs.
It would be interesting to know whether 2000Q performance might have improved if this “best batch” approach
had been applied, say, to batches of results from each spin
reversal transform, or to batches from different problem
embeddings. It would also be interesting to know if using any of the built-in tools for improving raw results on
the 2000Q system (such as modifying the anneal path,
using the extended J-range or virtual graph capabilities,
or postprocessing) might have yielded faster TTS.

IV.

CONCLUSION

The hazards of drawing conclusions about computational performance, based on extrapolation from unvalidated regression models, are widely understood (e.g. see
[8]). Extrapolating performance results beyond the range
of inputs tested is equally hazardous. These hazards are
exacerbated in this time of rapid development of quantum computer technologies, when performance models
are weak or nonexistent, and the data itself changes with
each new processor generation.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
[1] Hamerly et al. “Scaling advantages of all-to-all connectivity
in physical annealers: the Coherent Ising Machine vs. DWave 2000Q,” arXiv 1805.05217v1, 14 May 2018.
[2] Hamerly et al., “Quantum vs. Optical Annealing: Benchmarking the OPO Ising Machine and D-Wave,” in Conference on Lasers and Electro-Optics, OSA Technical Digest,
Optical Society of America, 2018.
[3] R. M. Hamerly, “Quantum vs. Optical Annealing: the Coherent Ising Machine and DWAVE,” presentation at AQC
conference, 2017.
[4] King et al., “Emulating the coherent Ising machine with a
mean-field algorithm,” arXiv:1806.08422v1, 21 June 2018.
[5] Banderier et al., “Average case analysis of NP-complete
problems: Maximum independent set and exhaustive search
algorithms,” Proceedings of AofA’09, 2009.
[6] Mathieu and Schudy, “Yet another algorithm for dense max
cut: go greedy,” Proceedings of SODA’O8, pp. 176-182,
2008.
[7] Rønnow et al., “Defining and detecting quantum speedup,”
Science 345, 420, 2014.

[8] David Bailey, “Twelve ways to fool the masses when giving
performance results on parallel computers,” Supercomputing
Review, pp. 54-55, Aug 1991. See also the updated version, http://www.davidhbailey.com/dhbtalks/dhb-12ways2013.pdf.

