                                            Annealing by simulating the coherent Ising
                                            machine
                                            E GOR S. T IUNOV
                                            Russian Quantum Center, 100 Novaya St., Skolkovo, Moscow 143025, Russia
                                            Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Dolgoprudny 141700, Russia
                                            A LEXANDER E. U LANOV
                                            Russian Quantum Center, 100 Novaya St., Skolkovo, Moscow 143025, Russia




arXiv:1901.08927v2 [quant-ph] 29 Jan 2019
                                            A. I. LVOVSKY
                                            Russian Quantum Center, 100 Novaya St., Skolkovo, Moscow 143025, Russia
                                            Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PU, UK
                                            P. N. Lebedev Physics Institute, Leninskiy prospect 53, Moscow 119991, Russia
                                            Alex.Lvovsky@physics.ox.ac.uk


                                            Abstract: The coherent Ising machine (CIM) enables efficient sampling of low-lying energy
                                            states of the Ising Hamiltonian with all-to-all connectivity by encoding the spins in the amplitudes
                                            of pulsed modes in an optical parametric oscillator (OPO). The interaction between the pulses is
                                            realized by means of measurement-based optoelectronic feedforward which enhances the gain
                                            for lower-energy spin configurations. We present an efficient method of simulating the CIM on
                                            a classical computer that outperforms the CIM itself as well as the noisy mean-field annealer
                                            in terms of both the quality of the samples and the computational speed. It is furthermore
                                            advantageous with respect to the CIM in that it can handle Ising Hamiltonians with arbitrary
                                            real-valued node coupling strengths. These results illuminate the nature of the faster performance
                                            exhibited by the CIM and may give rise to a new class of quantum-inspired algorithms of classical
                                            annealing that can successfully compete with existing methods.

                                            © 2019 Optical Society of America under the terms of the OSA Open Access Publishing Agreement


                                            Introduction. The Ising model, originally developed for the description of phase transitions
                                            in magnetic materials [1], is a pillar of many branches in science. Its applications range from
                                            quantum field theory [2] and quantum gravity [3] to economics [4] and machine learning [5].
                                            The model is defined by the Hamiltonian
                                                                                           1Õ
                                                                                    H=−           Ji j σi σj                                (1)
                                                                                           2 i, j

                                            where Ji j = J ji , Jii = 0. The spin variable σi can be a quantum operator or a number, continuous
                                            or discrete. In this paper we are interested in the classical discrete case, σi = ±1. The goal is
                                            to find the configurations of spins which realize or approach the global minimum of the Ising
                                            Hamiltonian (1). This is an NP-hard problem, meaning that the number of operations needed to
                                            find the exact solution grows exponentially with the size of the spin system [6]. However, there
                                            exists a variety of classical algorithms to find an approximate solution [7–10].
                                               Recently, the Ising problem has been approached using noisy intermediate-scale quantum
                                            (NISQ) devices. One example is the D-Wave quantum annealer based on superconducting qubits.
                                            However, it has a shortcoming associated with low connectivity: each physical qubit in the
                                            D-Wave chimera graph architecture is connected to only eight others. Therefore each logical
                                            spin must be embedded in multiple physical qubits to model the fully connected Hamiltonian (1),
                                            resulting in a significant overhead [11].
   Another example of NISQ technology is the coherent Ising machine (CIM) — an optoelectronic
device developed in 2016 [12, 13]. Experiments seem to demonstrate that CIM outperforms not
only classical simulated annealing algorithms [14], but also the D-Wave annealer [15]; however,
the latter result is being disputed by the D-Wave team [16].
   It has been argued that the fast performance of the CIM is of quantum nature, arising thanks to
the nonclassical nature of optical squeezing [17]. This view, however, challenges the universally
accepted belief that, in order to exhibit quantum speedup, a computational device would require
large-scale entanglement and thoroughly minimized interaction with the environment, as CIM
does not possess either of these features. A reasonable alternative hypothesis would be to ascribe
the speedup to the analog optical processing that takes place in the CIM. Indeed, it is known that
such processing, even in the absence of quantum effects, can be used to parallelize computational
operations [18].
   To address these questions, a number of approaches to computer simulation of the CIM and
related physics have been developed [15, 19–23]. In particular, a recent study [21] made an
explicit comparison of a mean-field digital annealer and observed advantage of their algorithm
with respect to the CIM in terms of both the annealing time and quality of samples obtained.
In the present work, we develop a new simulator, which we call SimCIM because it is largely
based on the actual physics of the CIM. We compare its performance with the bona fide CIM and
the annealer of Ref. [21] and find the results of this comparison to be generally in favor of our
algorithm.

The coherent Ising machine. The primary element of the CIM architecture (Fig. 1) is an
optical parametric oscillator (OPO) made up of a fiber loop and a degenerate parametric amplifier
(single-mode squeezer). The OPO is pumped above threshold in a pulsed manner. The length
of the loop is matched to an integer number of intervals between pump pulses, which results in
well-identified pulsed modes circulating inside the OPO. After multiple roundtrips, these modes
are amplified from the vacuum state to a microscopic amplitude. Due to the phase-sensitive
nature of the squeezer, the phases of the resulting modes tend to either ϕi = 0 or π.
   This symmetry is broken by a measurement-based pairwise interaction between pulses, which
is arranged as follows. Upon exiting the amplifier, a part of the optical energy is deflected to a
homodyne detector which measures the position quadrature of the pulse. The measurement result
X j is stored. Each pulse entering the amplifier is subjected to a phase-space displacement along
the position axis. The magnitude of the displacement applied to the ith pulse is proportional to
                                            Õ
                                                 Ji j X j ,                                    (2)
                                              j

where X j are the results obtained from the measurements on other pulses.
   Thanks to this displacement, the sequence of phases obtained by the pulses at the end of the
amplification cycle approaches the solution of the Ising problem, with the phases ϕi = 0 and π
encoding the spin values of σi = ±1, respectively. Intuitively, this can be understood as follows.
Treating the spins as continuous variables and the Ising Hamiltonian as the  Í potential energy, one
finds the gradient of this energy with respect to σi as F = −∇ j H = 12 j Ji j σj . The physical
interpretation of this gradient is the force that pushes the spin configuration towards lower energy.
By applying that force in the form of displacement to the pulses circulating inside the OPO, we
encourage their phases to align according to the minimum energy configuration.

CIM simulator. In SimCIM, we characterize each pulse by its complex amplitude ai =
√1 (xi + ipi ), where xi and pi are the canonical phase space quadratures. The per-roundtrip
 2
       Fig. 1. CIM setup. Each pulse undergoes optical squeezing, linear and non-linear loss, as
       well as displacement. FPGA: field-programmable gate array.


change in the amplitude can be written as
                                                             Õ                  √
                        ∆ai = wai∗ − γai − s|ai | 2 ai + ζ       Ji j x j + fi / 2.                (3)
                                                             j

In the above equation, the first term corresponds to the parametric gain, second to linear loss,
third to nonlinear loss, fourth to the displacement and fifth to the noise. The nonlinear loss is
associated with the second-harmonic generation, i.e. the transfer of energy from the signal back
to the pump of the parametric amplifier. This effect becomes significant only for macroscopic
signal amplitudes, but is necessary in the treatment in order to  Í account for the saturation of
the OPO. For the displacement term in Eq. (3), we are writing j Ji j x j instead of (2) as if this
term were calculated from the actual quadratures x j of the circulating pulses rather than the
quadratures X j measured on a tapped part of the optical energy. The additional quantum noises
associated with this replacement are absorbed into the noise term fi together with the quantum
noises arising from the losses.
   We can now rewrite Eq. (3) in terms of its real and imaginary components:
                                                            Õ
                      ∆xi = wxi − γxi − s(xi2 + p2i )xi + ζ    Ji j x j + Re fi ;
                                                                 j

                      ∆pi = −wpi − γpi − s(xi2 + p2i )pi + Im fi .                                 (4)


  In SimCIM, we omit the nonlinear loss term. This simplifies the calculation by allowing us to
drop the second equation in (4) and restrict the analysis to real numbers:
                                                 Õ
                                 ∆xi = vxi + ζ       Ji j x j + fi,                         (5)
                                                     j

where v = w − γ represents both the parametric gain (controlled by the pump value) and the
linear loss. To account for the saturation, we require that the amplitude |xi | not exceed a certain
fixed value xsat . That is, we update the amplitude in each iteration according to xi ← φ(xi + ∆xi ),
where                                       (
                                              x for |x| ≤ xsat ;
                                     φ(x) =                                                      (6)
                                              xsat otherwise
is the “activation function”. This approach is reminiscent to the Hopfield-Tank simulated
annealer [24], but differs from it in that the activation function is applied directly to the “neuron”
xi rather than its increment ∆xi . A further difference is that this function is not differentiable.
   We implement this iterative procedure on the GeForce 1080 consumer videoprocessor utilizing
the Tensorflow and PyTorch frameworks to take advantage of the parallel computation capability
                            a)




                            b)

                                                                                pump-loss




       Fig. 2. a) Evolution of the components of the “spin" vector x® = {xi }. b) Time dependence
       of the pump-loss factor v and the quantity ||N ( x®) − N ( Jˆx®)|| [the symbol N (·) denoting
       normalization] which shows the proximity of x® to the eigenvector of Jˆ with the highest
       eigenvalue.


offered by this hardware. To accelerate the convergence, we use the momentum method [25]
with the momentum parameter of β = 0.9. We increase the pump-loss parameter v according to
the hyperbolic tangent law (Fig. 2). When it reaches a certain threshold level, the “spins" xi start
to grow and eventually reach the limiting values of ±xsat . While some spins reach these values
quickly, others oscillate between positive and negative almost until the end of the run.
   This dynamics can be understood if we rewrite Eq. (5) in terms of the eigenvectors of the Ising
matrix ˆJ:                        (
                                    ∆ei = (v + ζΛii )ei + fi0;
                                                                                                 (7)
                                    | j R ji e j | ≤ xsat,
                                     Í

where e® = R̂ x® and Λ̂ = R̂ JˆR̂T , with R̂ being the orthogonal matrix that diagonalizes J.
                                                                                            ˆ In other
words, if the pulse amplitudes comprise an eigenvector of J,    ˆ the evolution through the OPO will
preserve that eigenvector as long as its amplitude is sufficiently small. In the initial stages of the
evolution, the pumping is below the threshold; the “spin" values fluctuate randomly around zero
because of the noise term fi . As the pump parameter v ramps up, the value of v + ζΛii becomes
positive for some i, leading to exponential growth of the corresponding eigenvector’s amplitude.
However, this growth will only continue until one of the eigenvector components reaches xsat , at
which point the second part of Eq. (7) comes into play. After that, x® is no longer an eigenvector
of ˆ
   J. As more and more components of x® stabilize at ±xsat , the effective matrix governing the
dynamics of the remaining components changes, resulting in their seemingly chaotic oscillation
between positive and negative values.

Results. We present our simulation results in the same terms as in CIM papers [12, 13], namely
the max-cut value problem [27]. In this problem, each edge of a certain graph has a value
associated with it. The goal is to divide the nodes of a certain graph into two subsets such that the
total value associated with the edges connecting them is maximized. This problem is equivalent
to the Ising problem, as the cut value is given by
                                            1Õ
                                    cut = −        Ji j 1 − σi σj ,
                                                                 
                                                                                                  (8)
                                            2 i< j
   # of nodes                              # of nodes                     # of nodes

                node degree                             node degree                    node degree




                Fig. 3. Histograms for the graphs G22, G39 [26] as well as the fully connected K2000 graph.
                For each graph the dependence between the number of runs and cut value is presented for
                the NMFA and SimCim algorithms and for CIM experimental results [13]. For G22 and
                G39 the results of CIM and algorithms also compared to BLS algorithm which gives the
                best known cuts.


where the spin value σi = ±1 defines which subset the ith node belongs to. The cut value is
maximized if the Ising energy is minimized.
    We compare our algorithm with the bona fide CIM and the noisy mean field annealing (NMFA)
algorithm [8, 21]. In NMFA,
                         Í        the spin in each iteration is driven towards its self-consistent
mean-field value tanh[ j Ji j x j ]. To allow direct comparison with the CIM of Ref. [12], we
optimize each algorithm to run for 1000 iterations and run it 100 times, constructing the histogram
of the cut value (8).
    We first run the simulations on the same set of 2000-node Ising graphs as Ref. [12]: relatively
sparse graphs G22 and G39 from the G-Set [26] and the fully connected graph K2000. The
parameters of both SimCIM (the time-dependent gain-loss parameter v, overall feedforward
factor ζ and the noise fi ) and NMFA have been optimized for each graph to obtain the best
performance. The results (Fig. 3) show superior performance of SimCIM with respect to the
bona fide CIM as well as visible improvement with respect to NMFA, with the advantage being
particularly strong for the denser graph K2000. Additionally, we compare the performance with
the known results of the breakout local search (BLS) [10], a classical algorithm which is known
to perform well on the Ising annealing problem, albeit at a comparatively low speed. We see that
the mean cut value obtained in the 100 SimCIM runs lies within 98% of the best BLS result.
    A similar level of performance was observed on 800-node GSet graphs G1–G10. SimCIM
with the same set of parameters reached the BLS ground state on 8 out of 10 graphs with the
mean probability of ∼ 25%. For the remaining two graphs (G2 and G9), the maximum cut value
reached lay within 99% of the BLS maximum.
    In terms of the computational speed, SimCIM is comparable to the CIM and NMFA. A
single run of the CIM of Ref. [12] with 1000 roundtrips takes 5 ms. On the GeForce 1080
consumer videoprocessor, 100 runs of 1000-iteration SimCIM, launched in parallel, took 400 ms,
corresponding to 4 ms per run. The corresponding figure for our implementation of NMFA was
5.5 ms.
    The bona fide CIM must compute new displacement amplitudes (2) at a rate that is faster than
the pump pulse repetition rate (1 ns in Ref. [12]). In order to ensure that the FPGA keeps up with
this rate, the designers of CIM restrict the allowed values of coupling terms in the Ising graph to
Ji j = ±1 or 0. Simulators, on the other hand, are not limited by this condition.
    To demonstrate this capability, we applied NMFA and SimCIM to a set of 100 800-node graphs
whose edge values are generated randomly according to a Gaussian distribution with the unit
dispersion, running each algorithm 100 times for each graph. The same set of parameters has
been used for the entire set. The results for one randomly chosen graph are shown in Fig. 4. We
found SimCIM to deliver consistently higher cut values, with the cut value averaged over all runs
and graphs equal to 5938 for NMFA and 6001 for SimCIM. If we consider the maximum cut
                                     SimCIM
                                     NMFA




       Fig. 4. Results for a random graph of dimension 800 with real-valued couplings Ji j that are
       normally distributed with zero mean and variance equal to one.


value obtained by either algorithm in the 100 runs for each graph, averaged over all graphs, the
two methods deliver similar values of 6022 for NMFA and 6021 for SimCIM. The high quality
of these results are not surprising, as it is known that the finding of the ground state is easier for
all-to-all connected graphs than for sparse ones [28]. Remarkably, however, SimCIM benefits
from this to a larger extent than NMFA.

Discussion. Our results show that coherent Ising machines can be outperformed by a simulation
algorithm running on a classical computer, with the added advantage of the coupling values Ji j
not being limited to 0 and ±1. In this sense, our results contrast those of Haribara et al. [14]
who found that classical annealing algorithms significantly underperform in comparison with the
CIM in terms of the optimization time (this reference does not report any comparison in terms
of the annealing quality). We believe this difference to be partially due to the hardware used
(Ref. [14] employed a CPU and a many-core processor whereas we used a GPU), and partially
thanks to our algorithm specially designed to simulate and compete with the CIM.
   There appears to be no added value either in the nonclassical nature of the optical states
produced, or in the partially analog information processing within the CIM. This is evident from
the comparative performance analysis of CIM and SimCIM, and can be understood from Eqs. (4)
and (5) describing the simulator. The most computationally expensive part in each simulation
step is the calculation of the feedforward term (2), which corresponds to the multiplication of
a matrix and a vector. Both in SimCIM and the bona fide CIM, this calculation is performed
via a digital processor (GPU vs. FPGA, respectively). Hence it is not surprising that the analog
optical processing in the CIM (which computes other terms in the simulation equation) does not
bring about visible performance benefits.
   Asking ourselves, what is the feature responsible for the faster performance of the CIM
compared to simulated annealing and taboo search algorithms, we are compelled to conclude that
the CIM’s primary asset is the different, albeit classical, underlying physics. A great potential of
this quantum-inspired approach is warranted by the vast applicability of the NP-hard problem of
annealing in the Ising system [9].
   The potential applications of the Ising annealer can be classified into two groups, as sum-
marized in a recent white paper by the D-Wave team [29]. First, a variety of optimization
problems, such as the traveling salesman problem and generalizations thereof [30–32], financial
portfolio optimization [33], protein folding [34], as well as constraint satisfaction problems,
e.g. factorization [35] and satisfiability [36, 37], can be reduced to the Ising optimization.
Second, sampling of low-lying energy states is a useful tool for machine learning, specifically for
the training of Boltzmann machines, which are in turn the primary component of deep belief
neural networks. A related application of the SimCIM and the restricted Boltzmann machine
based thereupon is the simulation of quantum condensed matter systems and phase transitions
therein [38], as well as quantum state and process tomography [39].
   As mentioned previously, CIM’s alleged superiority in comparison with the D-Wave annealer
[15] has been challenged by McGeogh et al. [16]. This paper criticizes the performance metric
used in Ref. [15] and furthermore argues that the comparison was made on Ising graphs that are
known to be easy to solve for classical machines. This criticism has, in turn, been responded to
in the second version of Ref. [15]. In summary, it remains an open question on which of the
above problems our simulator will prove competitive with respect to both classical heuristics and
NISQ devices.
   Further improvement to the SimCIM can be obtained by using it in combination with classical
taboo search algorithms [40] and by on-the-fly optimization of the simulation parameters based
on the real time observation of individual spin trajectories and the features of the Ising graph.
Leleu et al. used such an approach to eliminate stable equilibria associated with the local minima
of the Ising Hamiltonian and therefore enhance the likelihood of reaching the global minimum.
For some GSet graphs, they demonstrated cut values above those obtained by BLS [23].
   Another interesting potential research direction would be the experimental implementation of
the CIM-like machine so that the feedforward term is not calculated digitally but found through
optical interference of individual modes (which would need to be synchronized in time). This
can be implemented in either a free-space [41] or integrated [42] fashion. The computational
speedup would then be obtained thanks to the natural parallelism of analog optical processing.
An important observation we make from Fig. 2 is that the gain-loss parameter can be kept
negative throughout the simulator run. This means that the parametric gain element may in fact
not be necessary in the optical implementation of the CIM (or its successors) provided that the
per-roundtrip loss is maintained sufficiently small.
   We thank Alireza Marandi for stimulating discussions, Kirill Kalinin for help in calculations
and Natalia Berloff for making us aware of Hopfield networks. The work of A. L. is supported by
the RFBR (Grant No. 18-37-20033).

References
1. R. J. Baxter, Exactly solved models in statistical mechanics (Dover Publications, 2014).
2. J. B. Zuber and C. Itzykson, “Quantum field theory and the two-dimensional ising model”, Phys. Rev. D 15,
    2875–2884 (1977).
3. J. Ambjorn, K. N. Anagnostopoulos, R. Loll, and I. Pushkina, “Shaken, but not stirred: Potts model coupled to
    quantum gravity”, Nucl. Phys. B807, 251–264 (2009).
4. D. Sornette, “Physics and financial economics (1776-2014): puzzles, ising and agent-based models”, Reports on
    Prog. Phys. 77, 062001 (2014).
5. J. Biamonte, P. Wittek, N. Pancotti, P. Rebentrost, N. Wiebe, and S. Lloyd, “Quantum machine learning”, Nature 549,
    195 (2017).
6. F. Barahona, “On the computational complexity of ising spin glass models”, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 15, 3241 (1982).
7. S. Kirkpatrick, C. D. Gelatt, and M. P. Vecchi, “Optimization by simulated annealing”, Science 220, 671–680 (1983).
8. G. Bilbro, R. Mann, T. K. Miller, W. E. Snyder, D. E. Van den Bout, and M. White, “Optimization by mean field
    annealing”, in Advances in neural information processing systems, (1989), pp. 91–98.
9. K. A. Smith, “Neural networks for combinatorial optimization: a review of more than a decade of research”,
    INFORMS J. on Comput. 11, 15–34 (1999).
10. U. Benlic and J.-K. Hao, “Breakout local search for the max-cut problem”, Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 26, 1162 (2013).
11. P. I. Bunyk, E. M. Hoskinson, M. W. Johnson, E. Tolkacheva, F. Altomare, A. J. Berkley, R. Harris, J. P. Hilton,
    T. Lanting, A. J. Przybysz, and J. Whittaker, “Architectural considerations in the design of a superconducting quantum
    annealing processor”, IEEE Transactions on Appl. Supercond. 24, 1–10 (2014).
12. T. Inagaki, Y. Haribara, K. Igarashi, T. Sonobe, S. Tamate, T. Honjo, A. Marandi, P. L. McMahon, T. Umeki,
    K. Enbutsu et al., “A coherent ising machine for 2000-node optimization problems”, Science 354, 603–606 (2016).
13. P. L. McMahon, A. Marandi, Y. Haribara, R. Hamerly, C. Langrock, S. Tamate, T. Inagaki, H. Takesue, S. Utsunomiya,
    K. Aihara et al., “A fully programmable 100-spin coherent ising machine with all-to-all connections”, Science 354,
    614–617 (2016).
14. Y. Haribara, H. Ishikawa, S. Utsunomiya, K. Aihara, and Y. Yamamoto, “Performance evaluation of coherent ising
    machines against classical neural networks”, Quantum Sci. Technol. 2, 044002 (2017).
15. R. Hamerly, T. Inagaki, P. L. McMahon, D. Venturelli, A. Marandi, T. Onodera, E. Ng, C. Langrock, K. Inaba,
    T. Honjo, K. Enbutsu, T. Umeki, R. Kasahara, S. Utsunomiya, S. Kako, K.-i. Kawarabayashi, R. L. Byer, M. M. Fejer,
    H. Mabuchi, D. Englund, E. Rieffel, H. Takesue, and Y. Yamamoto, “Experimental investigation of performance
    differences between Coherent Ising Machines and a quantum annealer”, arXiv:1805.05217 (2018).
16. C. C. McGeoch, W. Bernoudy, and J. King, “Comment on "scaling advantages of all-to-all connectivity in physical
    annealers: the coherent Ising machine vs d-wave 2000q"”, arXiv:1807.00089 (2018).
17. Y. Yamamoto, K. Aihara, T. Leleu, K.-i. Kawarabayashi, S. Kako, M. Fejer, K. Inoue, and H. Takesue, “Coherent
    ising machines—optical neural networks operating at the quantum limit”, npj Quantum Inf. 3, 49 (2017).
18. H. J. Caulfield and S. Dolev, “Why future supercomputing requires optics”, Nat. Photonics 4, 261 (2010).
19. Z. Wang, A. Marandi, K. Wen, R. L. Byer, and Y. Yamamoto, “Coherent ising machine based on degenerate optical
    parametric oscillators”, Phys. Rev. A 88, 063853 (2013).
20. W. R. Clements, J. J. Renema, Y. H. Wen, H. M. Chrzanowski, W. S. Kolthammer, and I. A. Walmsley, “Gaussian
    optical ising machines”, Phys. Rev. A 96, 043850 (2017).
21. A. D. King, W. Bernoudy, J. King, A. J. Berkley, and T. Lanting, “Emulating the coherent ising machine with a
    mean-field algorithm”, arXiv:1806.08422 (2018).
22. K. P. Kalinin and N. G. Berloff, “Global optimization of spin hamiltonians with gain-dissipative systems”,
    arXiv:1807.00699 (2018).
23. T. Leleu, Y. Yamamoto, P. L. McMahon, and K. Aihara, “Destabilization of local minima in analog spin systems by
    correction of amplitude heterogeneity”, arXiv:1810.12565 (2018).
24. J. J. Hopfield and D. W. Tank, “Computing with neural circuits: A model”, Science 233, 625–633 (1986).
25. N. Qian, “On the momentum term in gradient descent learning algorithms”, Neural networks 12, 145–151 (1999).
26. https://web.stanford.edu/~yyye/yyye/Gset/.
27. R. Karp, “Reducibility among combinatorial problems”, in Complexity of Computer Computations, R. Miller and
    J. Thatcher, eds. (Plenum Press, 1972), pp. 85–103.
28. C. Banderier, H.-K. Hwang, V. Ravelomana, and V. Zacharovas, “Average case analysis of np-complete problems:
    Maximum independent set and exhaustive search algorithms”, Proc. AofA 2009 .
29. “D-wave problem-solving handbook”, https://docs.dwavesys.com/docs/latest/doc_handbook.
    html (2018).
30. F. Neukart, G. Compostella, C. Seidel, D. von Dollen, S. Yarkoni, and B. Parney, “Traffic flow optimization using a
    quantum annealer”, Front. ICT 4, 29 (2017).
31. S. Feld, C. Roch, T. Gabor, C. Seidel, F. Neukart, I. Galter, W. Mauerer, and C. Linnhoff-Popien, “A hybrid solution
    method for the capacitated vehicle routing problem using a quantum annealer”, arXiv:1811.07403 (2018).
32. M. Ohzeki, A. Miki, M. J. Miyama, and M. Terabe, “Control of automated guided vehicles without collision by
    quantum annealer and digital devices”, arXiv:1812.01532 (2018).
33. G. Rosenberg, P. Haghnegahdar, P. Goddard, P. Carr, K. Wu, and M. L. De Prado, “Solving the optimal trading
    trajectory problem using a quantum annealer”, IEEE J. Sel. Top. Signal Process. 10, 1053–1060 (2016).
34. A. Perdomo-Ortiz, N. Dickson, M. Drew-Brook, G. Rose, and A. Aspuru-Guzik, “Finding low-energy conformations
    of lattice protein models by quantum annealing”, Sci. Reports 2, 571 (2012).
35. E. R. Anschuetz, J. P. Olson, A. Aspuru-Guzik, and Y. Cao, “Variational quantum factoring”, arXiv:1808.08927
    (2018).
36. A. Douglass, A. D. King, and J. Raymond, “Constructing sat filters with a quantum annealer”, in International
    Conference on Theory and Applications of Satisfiability Testing, (Springer, 2015), pp. 104–120.
37. Z. Bian, F. Chudak, W. Macready, A. Roy, R. Sebastiani, and S. Varotti, “Solving sat and maxsat with a quantum
    annealer: Foundations, encodings, and preliminary results”, arXiv:1811.02524 (2018).
38. G. Carleo and M. Troyer, “Solving the quantum many-body problem with artificial neural networks”, Science 355,
    602–606 (2017).
39. G. Torlai, G. Mazzola, J. Carrasquilla, M. Troyer, R. Melko, and G. Carleo, “Neural-network quantum state
    tomography”, Nat. Phys. 14, 447 (2018).
40. E. Blanzieri and D. Pastorello, “Quantum annealing tabu search for qubo optimization”, arXiv:1810.09342 (2018).
41. A. Marandi, Z. Wang, K. Takata, R. L. Byer, and Y. Yamamoto, “Network of time-multiplexed optical parametric
    oscillators as a coherent ising machine”, Nat. Photonics 8, 937 (2014).
42. C. Roques-Carmes, Y. Shen, C. Zanoci, M. Prabhu, F. Atieh, L. Jing, T. Dubcek, V. Ceperic, J. D. Joannopoulos,
    D. Englund et al., “Photonic recurrent ising sampler”, arXiv:1811.02705 (2018).
